d clave the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place of which God had told him. 
Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off. 
And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass; and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you. 
And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they went both of them together. 
And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? 
And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they went both of them together. 
And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. 
And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son. 
And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I. 
And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou any thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me. 
And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. 
And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen. 
And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time, 
And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD, for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son: 
That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies; 
And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice. 
So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba. 
And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy brother Nahor; 
Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram, 
And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel. 
And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother. 
And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah. 
And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these were the years of the life of Sarah. 
And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her. 
And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the sons of Heth, saying, 
I am a stranger and a sojourner with you: give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight. 
And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, 
Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead. 
And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the children of Heth. 
And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar, 
That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a buryingplace amongst you. 
And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying, 
Nay, my lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee: bury thy dead. 
And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land. 
And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I will give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead there. 
And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 
My lord, hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver; what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead. 
And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant. 
And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which was before Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees that were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, were made sure 
Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city. 
And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan. 
And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth. 
And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things. 
And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh: 
And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell: 
But thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac. 
And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest? 
And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again. 
The LORD God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence. 
And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again. 
And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning that matter. 
And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and he arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor. 
And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out to draw water. 
And he said O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham. 
Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water: 
And let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed kindness unto my master. 
And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder. 
And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her pitcher, and came up. 
And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee, drink a little water of thy pitcher. 
And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink. 
And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking. 
And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels. 
And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not. 
And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold; 
And said, Whose daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father's house for us to lodge in? 
And she said unto him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor. 
She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in. 
And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD. 
And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being in the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's brethren. 
And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother's house these things. 
And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran out unto the man, unto the well. 
And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and, behold, he stood by the camels at the well. 
And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the camels. 
And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet, and the men's feet that were with him. 
And there was set meat before him to eat: but he said, I will not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on. 
And he said, I am Abraham's servant. 
And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold, and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses. 
And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master when she was old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath. 
And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell: 
But thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son. 
And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not follow me. 
And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I walk, will send his angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my kindred, and of my father's house: 
Then shalt thou be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath. 
And I came this day unto the well, and said, O LORD God of my master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go: 
Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink; 
And she say to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the same be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master's son. 
And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I pray thee. 
And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank, and she made the camels drink also. 
And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she said, the daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him: and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her hands. 
And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the LORD, and blessed the LORD God of my master Abraham, which had led me in the right way to take my master's brother's daughter unto his son. 
And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left. 
Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good. 
Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be thy master's son's wife, as the LORD hath spoken. 
And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant heard their words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth. 
And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things. 
And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him, and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said, Send me away unto my master. 
And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go. 
And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master. 
And they said, We will call the damsel, and enquire at her mouth. 
And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she said, I will go. 
And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his men. 
And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them. 
And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went his way. 
And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt in the south country. 
And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming. 
And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel. 
For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master: therefore she took a vail, and covered herself. 
And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done. 
And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was comforted after his mother's death. 
Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah. 
And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. 
And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 
And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah. 
And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac. 
But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country. 
And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years. 
Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. 
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre; 
The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife. 
And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi. 
Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham: 
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 
Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: 
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations. 
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people. 
And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all his brethren. 
And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham begat Isaac: 
And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister to Laban the Syrian. 
And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. 
And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD. 
And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall serve the younger. 
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. 
And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau. 
And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them. 
And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents. 
And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob. 
And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was faint: 
And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom. 
And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. 
And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit shall this birthright do to me? 
And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob. 
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his birthright. 
And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar. 
And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of: 
Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father; 
And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; 
Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. 
And Isaac dwelt in Gerar: 
And the men of the place asked him of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She is my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon. 
And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife. 
And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is thy wife; and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die for her. 
And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us. 
And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death. 
Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him. 
And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great: 
For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him. 
For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth. 
And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we. 
And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there. 
And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them. 
And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water. 
And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek; because they strove with him. 
And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah. 
And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land. 
And he went up from thence to Beersheba. 
And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake. 
And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a well. 
Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army. 
And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you? 
And they said, We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee; 
That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD. 
And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink. 
And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace. 
And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water. 
And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is Beersheba unto this day. 
And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite: 
Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah. 
And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I. 
And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my death: 
Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison; 
And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die. 
And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it. 
And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying, 
Bring me venison, and make me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD before my death. 
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee. 
Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such as he loveth: 
And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, and that he may bless thee before his death. 
And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man: 
My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing. 
And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only obey my voice, and go fetch me them. 
And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved. 
And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son: 
And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands, and upon the smooth of his neck: 
And she gave the savoury meat and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob. 
And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I; who art thou, my son? 
And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me. 
And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought it to me. 
And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not. 
And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau. 
And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau's hands: so he blessed him. 
And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am. 
And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him, and he did eat: and he brought him wine and he drank. 
And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me, my son. 
And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed: 
Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine: 
Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee. 
And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting. 
And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me. 
And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I am thy son, thy firstborn Esau. 
And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who? where is he that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and he shall be blessed. 
And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father. 
And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away thy blessing. 
And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hath supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and, behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me? 
And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I given to him for servants; and with corn and wine have I sustained him: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son? 
And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept. 
And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven from above; 
And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck. 
And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob. 
And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold, thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to kill thee. 
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran; 
And tarry with him a few days, until thy brother's fury turn away; 
Until thy brother's anger turn away from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I will send, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be deprived also of you both in one day? 
And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the land, what good shall my life do me? 
And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan. 
Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother's father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughers of Laban thy mother's brother. 
And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people; 
And give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham. 
And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother. 
When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughers of Canaan; 
And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padanaram; 
And Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father; 
Then went Esau unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his wife. 
And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran. 
And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep. 
And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it. 
And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LORD God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed; 
And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. 
And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. 
And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD is in this place; and I knew it not. 
And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. 
And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. 
And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of that city was called Luz at the first. 
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, 
So that I come again to my father's house in peace; then shall the LORD be my God: 
And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee. 
Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the people of the east. 
And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well's mouth. 
And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again upon the well's mouth in his place. 
And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they said, Of Haran are we. 
And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him. 
And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well: and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep. 
And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the cattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go and feed them. 
And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then we water the sheep. 
And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep; for she kept them. 
And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother. 
And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept. 
And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that he was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father. 
And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things. 
And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And he abode with him the space of a month. 
And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy wages be? 
And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. 
Leah was tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well favoured. 
And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter. 
And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that I should give her to another man: abide with me. 
And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto him but a few days, for the love he had to her. 
And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in unto her. 
And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast. 
And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her. 
And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an handmaid. 
And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah: and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me? 
And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give the younger before the firstborn. 
Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years. 
And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also. 
And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be her maid. 
And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years. 
And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb: but Rachel was barren. 
And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction; now therefore my husband will love me. 
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because the LORD hath heard I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also: and she called his name Simeon. 
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this time will my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons: therefore was his name called Levi. 
And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will I praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and left bearing. 
And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die. 
And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb? 
And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her. 
And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in unto her. 
And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son. 
And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan. 
And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son. 
And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali. 
When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife. 
And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son. 
And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad. 
And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son. 
And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed: and she called his name Asher. 
And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes. 
And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's mandrakes. 
And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I have hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her that night. 
And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob the fifth son. 
And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given my maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar. 
And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son. 
And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she called his name Zebulun. 
And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah. 
And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her womb. 
And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away my reproach: 
And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD shall add to me another son. 
And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country. 
Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee, and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee. 
And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath blessed me for thy sake. 
And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it. 
And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how thy cattle was with me. 
For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also? 
And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock. 
I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such shall be my hire. 
So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be counted stolen with me. 
And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy word. 
And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons. 
And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks. 
And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and chesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods. 
And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that they should conceive when they came to drink. 
And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted. 
And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto Laban's cattle. 
And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods. 
But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's. 
And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses. 
And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken away all that was our father's; and of that which was our father's hath he gotten all this glory. 
And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was not toward him as before. 
And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee. 
And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock, 
And said unto them, I see your father's countenance, that it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with me. 
And ye know that with all my power I have served your father. 
And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me. 
If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked. 
Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given them to me. 
And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled. 
And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob: And I said, Here am I. 
And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which leap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee. 
I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred. 
And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house? 
Are we not counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured also our money. 
For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is ours, and our children's: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do. 
Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels; 
And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan. 
And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father's. 
And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he told him not that he fled. 
So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over the river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead. 
And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled. 
And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven days' journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead. 
And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad. 
Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead. 
And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives taken with the sword? 
Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly, and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp? 
And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thou hast now done foolishly in so doing. 
It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad. 
And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore longedst after thy father's house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my gods? 
And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from me. 
With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them. 
And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into the two maidservants' tents; but he found them not. Then went he out of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent. 
Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel's furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but found them not. 
And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And he searched but found not the images. 
And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hast so hotly pursued after me? 
Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set it here before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both. 
This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten. 
That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I bare the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by day, or stolen by night. 
Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes. 
Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle: and thou hast changed my wages ten times. 
Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. God hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked thee yesternight. 
And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are my cattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born? 
Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; and let it be for a witness between me and thee. 
And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar. 
And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap. 
And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed. 
And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this day. Therefore was the name of it called Galeed; 
And Mizpah; for he said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one from another. 
If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other wives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is witness betwixt me and thee. 
And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold this pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee: 
This heap be witness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over this heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this pillar unto me, for harm. 
The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac. 
Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night in the mount. 
And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and his daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed, and returned unto his place. 
And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him. 
And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim. 
And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom. 
And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now: 
And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find grace in thy sight. 
And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. 
Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels, into two bands; 
And said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape. 
And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee: 
I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two bands. 
Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the mother with the children. 
And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude. 
And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother; 
Two hundred she goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams, 
Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls, twenty she asses, and ten foals. 
And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove. 
And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither goest thou? and whose are these before thee? 
Then thou shalt say, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us. 
And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him. 
And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me. 
So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that night in the company. 
And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok. 
And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that he had. 
And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. 
And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him. 
And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. 
And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob. 
And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. 
And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. 
And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. 
And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh. 
Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank. 
And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids. 
And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost. 
And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother. 
And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept. 
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God hath graciously given thy servant. 
Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves. 
And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves. 
And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? And he said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord. 
And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast unto thyself. 
And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me. 
Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he urged him, and he took it. 
And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before thee. 
And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die. 
Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir. 
And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the sight of my lord. 
So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir. 
And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called Succoth. 
And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent before the city. 
And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundred pieces of money. 
And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael. 
And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land. 
And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her. 
And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel. 
And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this damsel to wife. 
And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they were come. 
And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him. 
And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter: which thing ought not to be done. 
And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife. 
And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you. 
And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein. 
And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give. 
Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife. 
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister: 
And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us: 
But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be, that every male of you be circumcised; 
Then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people. 
But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone. 
And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son. 
And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all the house of his father. 
And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying, 
These men are peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade therein; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our daughters. 
Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us, to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are circumcised. 
Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast of their's be our's? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell with us. 
And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city. 
And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males. 
And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out. 
The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city, because they had defiled their sister. 
They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field, 
And all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house. 
And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my house. 
And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot? 
And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother. 
Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments: 
And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went. 
And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem. 
And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob. 
So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people that were with him. 
And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother. 
But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth. 
And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram, and blessed him. 
And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel. 
And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins; 
And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land. 
And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him. 
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon. 
And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel. 
And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour. 
And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also. 
And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him Benjamin. 
And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem. 
And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day. 
And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar. 
And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: 
The sons of Leah; Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun: 
The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin: 
And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali: 
And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid: Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram. 
And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned. 
And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years. 
And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him. 
Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom. 
Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite; 
And Bashemath Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebajoth. 
And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel; 
And Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan. 
And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into the country from the face of his brother Jacob. 
For their riches were more than that they might dwell together; and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because of their cattle. 
Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau is Edom. 
And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in mount Seir: 
These are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of Esau. 
And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz. 
And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife. 
And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife. 
And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. 
These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz, 
Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah. 
And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife. 
And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush, duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife. 
These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their dukes. 
These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 
And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom. 
And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna. 
And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. 
And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father. 
And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah. 
And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. 
The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran. 
These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah, 
Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke Dishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes in the land of Seir. 
And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there reigned any king over the children of Israel. 
And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. 
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his stead. 
And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith. 
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. 
And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. 
And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. 
And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 
And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau, according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth, 
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 
Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 
Duke Magdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father of the Edomites. 
And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. 
These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. 
Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours. 
And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him. 
And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they hated him yet the more. 
And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed: 
For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf. 
And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words. 
And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me. 
And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth? 
And his brethren envied him; but his father observed the saying. 
And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. 
And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I. 
And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. 
And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou? 
And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks. 
And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan. 
And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. 
And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. 
Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall see what will become of his dreams. 
And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands; and said, Let us not kill him. 
And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again. 
And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stript Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him; 
And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the pit was empty, there was no water in it. 
And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt. 
And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother, and conceal his blood? 
Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content. 
Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt. 
And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in the pit; and he rent his clothes. 
And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not; and I, whither shall I go? 
And they took Joseph's coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood; 
And they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son's coat or no. 
And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat; an evil beast hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces. 
And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days. 
And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him. 
And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard. 
And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah. 
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name was Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her. 
And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er. 
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name Onan. 
And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him. 
And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar. 
And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD slew him. 
And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's wife, and marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother. 
And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled it on the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother. 
And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he slew him also. 
Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at thy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went and dwelt in her father's house. 
And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah's wife died; and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite. 
And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up to Timnath to shear his sheep. 
And she put her widow's garments off from her, and covered her with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was not given unto him to wife. 
When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because she had covered her face. 
And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee, let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daughter in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come in unto me? 
And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it? 
And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he gave it her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him. 
And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood. 
And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive his pledge from the woman's hand: but he found her not. 
Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the harlot, that was openly by the way side? And they said, There was no harlot in this place. 
And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also the men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place. 
And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed: behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her. 
And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her forth, and let her be burnt. 
When she was brought forth, she sent to her father in law, saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said, Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and staff. 
And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he knew her again no more. 
And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins were in her womb. 
And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out his hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This came out first. 
And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? this breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez. 
And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah. 
And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither. 
And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian. 
And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORD made all that he did to prosper in his hand. 
And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand. 
And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field. 
And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly person, and well favoured. 
And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me. 
But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand; 
There is none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because thou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God? 
And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her. 
And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the house to do his business; and there was none of the men of the house there within. 
And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out. 
And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth, 
That she called unto the men of her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice: 
And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled, and got him out. 
And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home. 
And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me: 
And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled out. 
And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me; that his wrath was kindled. 
And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was there in the prison. 
But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison. 
And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. 
The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under his hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, the LORD made it to prosper. 
And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt. 
And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers. 
And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound. 
And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them: and they continued a season in ward. 
And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison. 
And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon them, and, behold, they were sad. 
And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day? 
And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations belong to God? tell me them, I pray you. 
And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; 
And in the vine were three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: 
And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. 
And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: The three branches are three days: 
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler. 
But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house: 
For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon. 
When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three white baskets on my head: 
And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head. 
And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation thereof: The three baskets are three days: 
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee. 
And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants. 
And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand: 
But he hanged the chief baker: as Joseph had interpreted to them. 
Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him. 
And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river. 
And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow. 
And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the other kine upon the brink of the river. 
And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke. 
And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good. 
And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them. 
And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream. 
And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh. 
Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day: 
Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief baker: 
And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream. 
And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret. 
And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged. 
Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh. 
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it. 
And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. 
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river: 
And, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a meadow: 
And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness: 
And the lean and the ill favoured kine did eat up the first seven fat kine: 
And when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke. 
And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good: 
And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them: 
And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto the magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me. 
And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: God hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do. 
The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are seven years: the dream is one. 
And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine. 
This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh. 
Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt: 
And there shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine shall consume the land; 
And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall be very grievous. 
And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. 
Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt. 
Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years. 
And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. 
And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land perish not through the famine. 
And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants. 
And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? 
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art: 
Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou. 
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. 
And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck; 
And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt. 
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. 
And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. 
And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt. 
And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls. 
And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same. 
And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much, until he left numbering; for it was without number. 
And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him. 
And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God, said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father's house. 
And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. 
And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of Egypt, were ended. 
And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread. 
And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto Joseph; what he saith to you, do. 
And the famine was over all the face of the earth: and Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt. 
And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn; because that the famine was so sore in all lands. 
Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another? 
And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die. 
And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt. 
But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him. 
And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came: for the famine was in the land of Canaan. 
And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph's brethren came, and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth. 
And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them, Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food. 
And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him. 
And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come. 
And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy servants come. 
We are all one man's sons; we are true men, thy servants are no spies. 
And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come. 
And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is not. 
And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you, saying, Ye are spies: 
Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither. 
Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies. 
And he put them all together into ward three days. 
And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; for I fear God: 
If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses: 
But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so. 
And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us. 
And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore, behold, also his blood is required. 
And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake unto them by an interpreter. 
And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound him before their eyes. 
Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way: and thus did he unto them. 
And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence. 
And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack's mouth. 
And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, it is even in my sack: and their heart failed them, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us? 
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell unto them; saying, 
The man, who is the lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country. 
And we said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies: 
We be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. 
And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone: 
And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye are no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you your brother, and ye shall traffick in the land. 
And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid. 
And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away: all these things are against me. 
And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again. 
And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave. 
And the famine was sore in the land. 
And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy us a little food. 
And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you. 
If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food: 
But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down: for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you. 
And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother? 
And they said, The man asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him according to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down? 
And Judah said unto Israel his father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we, and thou, and also our little ones. 
I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for ever: 
For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time. 
And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do this; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts, and almonds: 
And take double money in your hand; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight: 
Take also your brother, and arise, go again unto the man: 
And God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved. 
And the men took that present, and they took double money in their hand and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph. 
And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of his house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready; for these men shall dine with me at noon. 
And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men into Joseph's house. 
And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph's house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses. 
And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they communed with him at the door of the house, 
And said, O sir, we came indeed down at the first time to buy food: 
And it came to pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold, every man's money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight: and we have brought it again in our hand. 
And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food: we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks. 
And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and the God of your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money. And he brought Simeon out unto them. 
And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and gave them water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender. 
And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for they heard that they should eat bread there. 
And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to hi